README.md, before:

# BERGEN: Benchmarking RAG
We present a library to benchmark RAG systems, focusing on question-answering (QA). Inconsistent benchmarking poses a major challenge in comparing approaches and understanding the impact of each
component in a RAG pipeline.
BERGEN was designed to ease the reproducibility and integration of new datasets and models thanks to HuggingFace.



## Quick Start
A RAG setup is typically a pipeline

`input` >> `retriever` >> `reranker` >> `LLM` >> `output`

One can write simple config files (yaml), configuring a retriever, reranker, and LLMs for generations. All those configurations can be chained together as follows: am experiment with retrieval using `BM25`, reranking using `MiniLM6`, and generation using `tinyllama-chat` on `kilt_nq`.

```bash
  python3 bergen.py retriever="bm25" reranker="minilm6" generator='tinyllama-chat' dataset='kilt_nq'
```

### Installation
 Check  the [installation guide](documentations/INSTALL.md)

## Supported Features
BERGEN contains simple wrappers for the following features:
| Category        | Name               |   Argument                     |
|-|-|-|
| **Datasets**    | NQ                 | `dataset="kilt_nq"`            |
|                 | TriviaQA           | `dataset="kilt_triviaqa"`      |
| **Generators**  | Llama 2 7B Chat    | `generator="llama-2-7b-chat"`  |
|                 | Llama 2 13B Chat   | `generator="llama-2-13b-chat"` |
|                 | Llama 2 70B Chat   | `generator="llama-2-70b-chat"` |
|                 | Mixtral-8x7B-Instruct-v0.1   | `generator="mixtral-moe-7b-chat"` |
|                 | SOLAR-10.7B-Instruct-v1.0   | `generator="SOLAR-107B"` |
| **Retrievers**  | BM25               | `retriever="bm25"`             |
|                 | SPLADE-v3          | `retriever="spladev3"`         |
|                 | BGE                | `retriever="bge"`              |
| **Rerankers**   | DeBERTa-v3         | `reranker="debertav3"`         |

Supported Metrics:
| Metric |
| - |
|Match|
|Exact Match|
|Recall|
|Precision|
| F1 Score |
| ROUGE-1,2,L  |  
|LLMeval|

All the  configuration files are located in the config dir.
The main config file is located in config/rag.yaml

```
# main variables locating the local data folder and index
run_name: null
dataset_folder: 'datasets/' # where to download, save and preprocess the dataset
index_folder: 'indexes/' # where the search index are saved
runs_folder: 'runs/' # where the text search runs are saved, ie (query and document id lists)
experiments_folder: 'experiments/'    # where the generations from LLMs and metrics are saved

```


Datasets will be downloaded, pre-processed, indexed, and saved if they do not exist yet, otherwise, they will be loaded from `dataset_folder` and `index_folder` respectively. 

```bash
ls config/dataset/
2wikimultihopqa.yaml  kilt_cweb.yaml   kilt_hotpotqa.yaml     kilt_structured_zeroshot.yaml  kilt_wned.yaml  msmarco.yaml  pubmed_bioasq.yaml  ut1.yaml asqa.yaml kilt_eli5.yaml   kilt_nq_wiki2024.yaml  kilt_trex.yaml   kilt_wow.yaml   nq_open.yaml  sciq.yaml  wiki_qa.yaml kilt_aidayago2.yaml   kilt_fever.yaml  kilt_nq.yaml kilt_triviaqa.yaml mmlu.yaml popqa.yaml  truthful_qa.yaml
```


All datasets can be overwritten by adding `+overwrite_datasets=True` as an argument (`Caution`: This might overwrite collections that take long long to encode). In case the indexing is interrupted you can continue encoding a collection from batch 1000 by additionally using the argument `+continue_batch=1000`.

Indexing will be automatically launched if needed: retrieval, reranking runs will be loaded from files if they already exist in `runs`, otherwise they will be created.  Retrieval will only be evaluated if the `query` dataset contains the field `ranking_label`.
For details about indexing, please refer to [indexing.md](documentations/indexing.md)

Experiments are saved under `experiments_folder`. The experiments folder is named after the hash of the config, unless the experiment is finished the folder name will contain the prefix `tmp_`. The script will be aborted if an experiment with the exact same parameters has been run before. To overwrite the experiment add `+overwrite_exp=True` as an argument.

To overwrite an existing index (and subsequently the ranking run) add `+overwrite_index=True` as an argument.

To print the results in a table run. By default, this will print all experiments that contain generation metric files in `experiments/` and sort them by the `generator`.

```bash
python3 print_results.py --folder experiments/
TODO Give an example here
```
## Pipeline Examples
For the main command line:  `retriever`, `reranker`, and `generator` are optional and can be `None`, the `dataset` argument must always be provided. 
 
Generation without Retrieval (Closed Book)
```bash
python3 bergen.py  generator='tinyllama-chat' dataset='kilt_nq' 
```
Retriever - only first stage:
```bash
python3 bergen.py retriever="splade-v3" generator='tinyllama-chat' dataset='kilt_nq'
```
Retriever + Reranker
```bash
python3 bergen.py retriever="splade-v3" reranker="debertav3"  generator='tinyllama-chat' dataset='kilt_nq'
```

Using vllm to speed up generation:
```bash
python3 bergen.py retriever="splade-v3" reranker="debertav3"  generator='vllm_SOLAR-107B' dataset='kilt_nq'
```

To specify another config file:
```bash
# create a config file located in the config dir
# (the default config is rag)
CONFIG=myownconfig python3 bergen.py retriever="splade-v3" reranker="debertav3"  generator='vllm_SOLAR-107B' dataset='kilt_nq'
```

## Evaluation
Non-neural metrics will be calculated automatically. Neural metrics such as `BEM` and `LLM` need to be evoked seperately.

By default `eval.py` will scan all folders in `experiments/` and evaluate them sequentially. To evaluate a single folder pass the folder using `--folder`. To avoid running out of memory either run `BEM` using `--bem` or run `LLM` using `--llm`. A csv file will automatically be saved to `results/` containing the table in `csv` format.

```bash
python3 eval.py --experiments_folder experiments/ --llm_batch_size 16 --split 'dev' --llm
```




## Output files
Example files generated for split `dev` using `naver_splade-cocondenser-selfdistil` as a retriever.
- `config.yaml` The parameters of the experiment in yaml format.
- `eval_dev_generation_time.json` The generation time in json format.
- `eval_dev_metrics.json` Generation evaluation metrics in json format.
- `eval_dev_out.json` Output of the generation, contains `q_id` (str), `response` `(str)` the generated response, `label` `(list (str))` the answer reference (multiple possible), `instruction` `(str)` the instruction given to the generator, `ranking_label` `(list(list(str)), optional)` ids of reference paragraph (again multiple references possible).
- `run.retrieve.top_5.kilt_nq.dev.naver_splade-cocondenser-selfdistil.trec` The retrieval run in `trec` format.
- `eval_dev_ranking_metrics.json` Retrieval evaluation metrics in json format.

### Printing Results Table

Simply run:
```bash
python3 print_results.py --folder experiments/
```
## Extensions
See here our [reference guide](documentations/extensions.md) to add new datasets, models or configure prompts


### Oracle Provenances as Answer
Generating answers using oracle provenances directly as an answer. 

For running the generation simply selectn as the retriever and the generator `oracle_provenance`. For example: 

```python
python3 main.py dataset='kilt_nq' retriever='oracle_provenance' generator='oracle_provenance'
```
# Testing

To run all tests run:

To run all tests in the `tests` folder run:

```bash
pytest tests/
```

To run a single test (e.g. `tinyonly`) run: 
```bash 
pytest tests/ -k "tinyonly"
```

## License
```
BERGEN
Copyright (C) 2024-present NAVER Corp.

Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 license

A summary of the CC BY-NC-SA 4.0 license is located here:
    https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/

The CC BY-NC-SA 4.0 license is located here: 
    https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/legalcode
```

Commit message:

update datasets & indexing & print_res

README.md, after:

# BERGEN: Benchmarking RAG
We present a library to benchmark RAG systems, focusing on question-answering (QA). Inconsistent benchmarking poses a major challenge in comparing approaches and understanding the impact of each
component in a RAG pipeline.
BERGEN was designed to ease the reproducibility and integration of new datasets and models thanks to HuggingFace.



## Quick Start
A RAG setup is typically a pipeline

`input` >> `retriever` >> `reranker` >> `LLM` >> `output`

One can write simple config files (yaml), configuring a retriever, reranker, and LLMs for generations. All those configurations can be chained together as follows: am experiment with retrieval using `BM25`, reranking using `MiniLM6`, and generation using `tinyllama-chat` on `kilt_nq`.

```bash
  python3 bergen.py retriever="bm25" reranker="minilm6" generator='tinyllama-chat' dataset='kilt_nq'
```

### Installation
 Check  the [installation guide](documentations/INSTALL.md)

## Supported Features
BERGEN contains simple wrappers for the following features:
| Category        | Name               |   Argument                     |
|-|-|-|
| **Datasets**    | NQ                 | `dataset="kilt_nq"`            |
|                 | TriviaQA           | `dataset="kilt_triviaqa"`      |
| **Generators**  | Llama 2 7B Chat    | `generator="llama-2-7b-chat"`  |
|                 | Llama 2 13B Chat   | `generator="llama-2-13b-chat"` |
|                 | Llama 2 70B Chat   | `generator="llama-2-70b-chat"` |
|                 | Mixtral-8x7B-Instruct-v0.1   | `generator="mixtral-moe-7b-chat"` |
|                 | SOLAR-10.7B-Instruct-v1.0   | `generator="SOLAR-107B"` |
| **Retrievers**  | BM25               | `retriever="bm25"`             |
|                 | SPLADE-v3          | `retriever="spladev3"`         |
|                 | BGE                | `retriever="bge"`              |
| **Rerankers**   | DeBERTa-v3         | `reranker="debertav3"`         |

Supported Metrics:
| Metric |
| - |
|Match|
|Exact Match|
|Recall|
|Precision|
| F1 Score |
| ROUGE-1,2,L  |  
|LLMeval|

All the  configuration files are located in the config dir.
The main config file is located in config/rag.yaml

```
# main variables locating the local data folder and index
run_name: null
dataset_folder: 'datasets/' # where to download, save and preprocess the dataset
index_folder: 'indexes/' # where the search index are saved
runs_folder: 'runs/' # where the text search runs are saved, ie (query and document id lists)
experiments_folder: 'experiments/'    # where the generations from LLMs and metrics are saved

```

### Datasets
Datasets will be downloaded, pre-processed, indexed, and saved if they do not exist yet, otherwise, they will be loaded from `dataset_folder` and `index_folder` respectively. 

```bash
ls config/dataset/
2wikimultihopqa.yaml  kilt_cweb.yaml   kilt_hotpotqa.yaml     kilt_structured_zeroshot.yaml  kilt_wned.yaml  msmarco.yaml  pubmed_bioasq.yaml  ut1.yaml asqa.yaml kilt_eli5.yaml   kilt_nq_wiki2024.yaml  kilt_trex.yaml   kilt_wow.yaml   nq_open.yaml  sciq.yaml  wiki_qa.yaml kilt_aidayago2.yaml   kilt_fever.yaml  kilt_nq.yaml kilt_triviaqa.yaml mmlu.yaml popqa.yaml  truthful_qa.yaml
```

To add a new datasets, please refer to an following guide:[extensions](documentations/extensions.md)

### Retrieval
Indexing of the document collections will be automatically launched if needed: retrieval, reranking runs will be loaded from files if they already exist in `runs`, otherwise they will be created.  Retrieval will only be evaluated if the `query` dataset contains the field `ranking_label`.
For details about indexing, please refer to [indexing.md](documentations/indexing.md)

Experiments are saved under `experiments_folder`. The experiments folder is named after the hash of the config, unless the experiment is finished the folder name will contain the prefix `tmp_`. The script will be aborted if an experiment with the exact same parameters has been run before. 


- To overwrite the experiment add `+overwrite_exp=True` as an argument, due to a bug or another update in the config 
- To overwrite an existing retrieval run, `+overwrite_run=True` as an argument.
-  To rebuild the index (and subsequently the ranking run) add `+overwrite_index=True` as an argument.

To print the results in a table run the following commands. By default, this will print all experiments that contain generation metric files in `experiments/` and sort them by the `generator`.

```bash
# will print a markdown of the results and save a csv file under the results directory
python3 print_results.py --csv --folder experiments/

#csv files with all the metrics
exp_folder,Retriever,P_1,Reranker,Generator,gen_time,query_dataset,r_top,rr_top,M,EM,F1,P,R,Rg-1,Rg-2,Rg-L,BEM,LLMeval
216567b3d48ef3fc,naver/splade-v3/,,naver/trecdl22-crossencoder-debertav3,TinyLlama/TinyLlama-1.1B-Chat-v1.0,00:03:53.19,KILTTriviaqa,100,100,0.6763772175536882,0.00018674136321195143,0.11749967712256401,0.07122756370055569,0.5380933823321367,0.1505780809175042,0.055962386132169924,0.14611799602749245,0.47356051206588745,
```
## Pipeline Examples
For the main command line:  `retriever`, `reranker`, and `generator` are optional and can be `None`, the `dataset` argument must always be provided. 
 
Generation without Retrieval (Closed Book)
```bash
python3 bergen.py  generator='tinyllama-chat' dataset='kilt_nq' 
```
Retriever - only first stage:
```bash
python3 bergen.py retriever="splade-v3" generator='tinyllama-chat' dataset='kilt_nq'
```
Retriever + Reranker
```bash
python3 bergen.py retriever="splade-v3" reranker="debertav3"  generator='tinyllama-chat' dataset='kilt_nq'
```

Using vllm to speed up generation:
```bash
python3 bergen.py retriever="splade-v3" reranker="debertav3"  generator='vllm_SOLAR-107B' dataset='kilt_nq'
```

To specify another config file:
```bash
# create a config file located in the config dir
# (the default config is rag)
CONFIG=myownconfig python3 bergen.py retriever="splade-v3" reranker="debertav3"  generator='vllm_SOLAR-107B' dataset='kilt_nq'
```

## Evaluation
Non-neural metrics will be calculated automatically. Neural metrics such as `BEM` and `LLM` need to be evoked seperately.

By default `eval.py` will scan all folders in `experiments/` and evaluate them sequentially. To evaluate a single folder pass the folder using `--folder`. To avoid running out of memory either run `BEM` using `--bem` or run `LLM` using `--llm`. A csv file will automatically be saved to `results/` containing the table in `csv` format.

```bash
python3 eval.py --experiments_folder experiments/ --llm_batch_size 16 --split 'dev' --llm
```




## Output files
Example files generated for split `dev` using `naver_splade-cocondenser-selfdistil` as a retriever.
- `config.yaml` The parameters of the experiment in yaml format.
- `eval_dev_generation_time.json` The generation time in json format.
- `eval_dev_metrics.json` Generation evaluation metrics in json format.
- `eval_dev_out.json` Output of the generation, contains `q_id` (str), `response` `(str)` the generated response, `label` `(list (str))` the answer reference (multiple possible), `instruction` `(str)` the instruction given to the generator, `ranking_label` `(list(list(str)), optional)` ids of reference paragraph (again multiple references possible).
- `run.retrieve.top_5.kilt_nq.dev.naver_splade-cocondenser-selfdistil.trec` The retrieval run in `trec` format.
- `eval_dev_ranking_metrics.json` Retrieval evaluation metrics in json format.

### Printing Results Table

Simply run:
```bash
python3 print_results.py --folder experiments/
```
## Extensions
See here our [reference guide](documentations/extensions.md) to add new datasets, models or configure prompts


### Oracle Provenances as Answer
Generating answers using oracle provenances directly as an answer. 

For running the generation simply selectn as the retriever and the generator `oracle_provenance`. For example: 

```python
python3 main.py dataset='kilt_nq' retriever='oracle_provenance' generator='oracle_provenance'
```
# Testing

To run all tests run:

To run all tests in the `tests` folder run:

```bash
pytest tests/
```

To run a single test (e.g. `tinyonly`) run: 
```bash 
pytest tests/ -k "tinyonly"
```

## License
```
BERGEN
Copyright (C) 2024-present NAVER Corp.

Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 license

A summary of the CC BY-NC-SA 4.0 license is located here:
    https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/

The CC BY-NC-SA 4.0 license is located here: 
    https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/legalcode
```
